Airbyte Specification Docs (#658)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/architecture/airbyte-specification.md

# The Airbyte Specification

## Summary

> This page will describe the Airbyte Specification.

Reviewer: We should have a good short blurb that makes it clear what is being provided here and that the spec is:
- docker based
- a CLI
- provides structured stdout message passing
- defines sources / targets / messages
- is designed to work with Airbyte but is an independent standard.

Author: thanks this is helpful

####Contents:
1. [General information about the specification](#General)
1. [Integration primitives](#Primitives)
1. [Details of the protocol to pass information between integrations](#The-Protocol)

## General
* All structs described in this article are defined using JsonSchema.

> * Airbyte uses json serialized representations of these structs for all inter-process communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Airbyte uses JSON representations of these structs for all inter-process communication.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Not sure exactly where this belongs, but this should ideally have a one-liner saying ~`for a clearer idea of how integration images interact with the core Airbyte modules, see the architecture section` . basically something that helps motivate how this is used.

Author: good call. added it in general.

> ### Definitions

Author: @sherifnada - lmk if i goofed on any of the definitions.

* Airbyte Worker - This is a core piece of the Airbyte stack that is responsible for initializing Sources and Destinations and passing data from Source to Destination. Someone implementing an integration need not ever touch this code, but in this article we mention it to contextualize how data is flowing through Airbyte.
* Integration - An integration is code that allows Airbyte to interact with a specific underlying data source (e.g. Postgres). In Airbyte, an integration is either a Source or a Destination.
* Source - An integration that _pulls_ data from an underlying data source. (e.g. A Postgres Source reads data from a Postgres database. A Stripe Source reads data from the Stripe API)
* Destination - An integration that _pushes_ data to an underlying data source. (e.g. A Postgres Destination writes data to a Postgres database)

> * AirbyteSpecification - the specification that describe how to implement integrations using a standard interface.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* AirbyteSpecification - the specification that describes how to implement integrations using a standard interface.
```

Reviewer 2: should this be called `ConnectorSpecification`?

Author: no. this is just describing the overarching, this is how you do airbyte, not the specific fields you put into a specific integration.

* AirbyteProtocol - the protocol used for inter-process communication.
* Integration Commands - the commands that an integration container implements (e.g. spec, check, discover, read/write). We describe these commands in more detail below.
* Sync - the act of moving data from a source to a destination.

## Primitives

### Source
* A source is implemented as a docker container. The container must adhere to the following interface.

> Pseudocode of the interface:

Reviewer: I would start out with the CLI version and then show the pseudocode, so someone skimming isn't confused.

```

> spec() -> ConnectorSpecification

Author: we should probably name space this `AirbyteConnectorSpecification` to match with the content of other messages.

Reviewer 2: hot take: I would prefer that we remove the `Airbyte` prefix from all of our structs and package names. But pragmatically speaking, yes.

Author: legit. either way, i'm not going to try to do this right now.

check(Config) -> AirbyteConnectionStatus
discover(Config) -> AirbyteCatalog
read(Config, AirbyteCatalog, State) -> Stream<AirbyteMessage>
```

> How to the container will be called:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
How the container will be called:
```

The first argument passed to the image must be the command (e.g. spec, check, discover, read). Additional arguments can be passed after the command.

> Note: When called by the airbyte worker, it will handle mounting the appropriate paths so that the config files are available to the container. This code snippet does not include that logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: The system running the container will handle mounting the appropriate paths so that the config files are available to the container. This code snippet does not include that logic.
```

```
docker run --rm -i <source-image-name> spec
docker run --rm -i <source-image-name> check --config <config-file-path>
docker run --rm -i <source-image-name> discover --config <config-file-path>

> docker run --rm -i <source-image-name> read --config <config-file-path> --catalog <catalog-file-path> --state <optional-state-file-path> > message_stream.json

Reviewer: ```suggestion
docker run --rm -i <source-image-name> read --config <config-file-path> --catalog <catalog-file-path> [--state <state-file-path>] > message_stream.json
```

```

> The read command will emit a stream records on stdout.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The read command will emit a stream records to stdout.
```

#### Spec
* Input:
    1. none.
* Output:

>     1. spec - a [ConnectorSpecification](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-protocol/models/src/main/resources/airbyte_protocol/airbyte_message.yaml#L133-L149).

Reviewer 2: more specifically this should output an `AirbyteMessage` with this field set

* A `ConnectorSpecification` contains information about the source.
* The `connectionSpecification` of that struct must be valid JsonSchema. It describes what inputs are needed in order for the source to interact with the underlying data source. e.g. If using a postgres source, the `ConnectorSpecification` would specify that a `hostname`, `port`, and `password` are required in order for the integration to function. The UI reads the JsonSchema in this field in order to render the input fields for a user to fill in. This JsonSchema is also used to validate that the provided inputs are valid. e.g. If `port` is one of the fields and the JsonSchema in the `connectorSpecification` specifies that this filed should be a number, if a user inputs "airbyte", they will receive an error. Airbyte adheres to JsonSchema validation rules.

#### Check
* Input:

>     1. config: A configuration json object that has been validated using the `ConnectorSpecification`.

Reviewer: nit: some of these use : and some use -

Author: good call. thanks.

* Output:

>     1. connectionStatus - an [AirbyteConnectionStatus](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-protocol/models/src/main/resources/airbyte_protocol/airbyte_message.yaml#L94-L107).

Reviewer 2: `AirbyteMessage`

* It attempts to connect to the underlying data source in order to verify that the provided credentials are usable. e.g. If the given the credentials, it can connect to the postgres database, it will return a success response. If it fails (perhaps the password is incorrect), it will return a failed response and (when possible) a helpful error message.

#### Discover
* Input:
    1. config: A configuration json object that has been validated using the `ConnectorSpecification`.
* Output:
    1. catalog - an [AirbyteCatalog](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/blob/master/airbyte-protocol/models/src/main/resources/airbyte_protocol/airbyte_message.yaml#L108-L132).
* This command detects the _structure_ of the data in the data source.
* An `AirbyteCatalog` describes the structure of data in a data source. It has a single field called `streams` that contains a list of `AirbyteStream`s. Each of these contain a `name` and `json_schema` field. The `json_schema` field accepts any valid JsonSchema and describes the structure of a stream. This data model is intentionally flexible. That can make it a little hard at first to mentally map onto your own data, so we provide some example below:

>     * If you are using a data source that is a "traditional" relational database, each table in that database would make to an `AirbyteStream`. Each column in the table would be a key in the `json_schema` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If you are using a data source that is a "traditional" relational database, each table in that database would map to an `AirbyteStream`. Each column in the table would be a key in the `json_schema` field.
```

>     * If you are using a data source that is a "traditional" relational database, each table in that database would make to an `AirbyteStream`. Each column in the table would be a key in the `json_schema` field.

Reviewer 2: Wouldn't this be a key in the `properties` field inside the `json_schema`? http://json-schema.org/understanding-json-schema/reference/object.html#id2

Author: oops. good catch.

>         * e.g. If we have a table called `users` which had the columns `name` and `age` (the age column is optional) the `AirbyteCatalog` would look like this:

Reviewer 2: if the age column is optional, the would be `["null", "string"]` right?

Author: i believe both are valid JsonSchema.

            ```
            {
              "streams": [
                {
                  "name": "users",
                  "schema": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "required": ["name"],
                    "properties": {
                      "name": {
                        "type": "string"
                      },
                      "age": {
                        "type": {
                          "number"
                        }
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              ]
            }
            ```
    * If you are using a data source that wraps an API with multiple different resources (e.g. `api/customers` and `api/products`) each route would correspond to a stream. The json object returned by each route would be described in the `json_schema` field.

>         * e.g. In the case where the API has two endpoints `api/customers` and `api/producs` and each returns a list of json objects, the `AirbyteCatalog` might look like this. (Note: using the json schema standard for defining a stream allows you to describe nested objects. You are not constrained to a classic "table/columns" structure)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        * e.g. In the case where the API has two endpoints `api/customers` and `api/products` and each returns a list of json objects, the `AirbyteCatalog` might look like this. (Note: using the json schema standard for defining a stream allows you to describe nested objects. You are not constrained to a classic "table/columns" structure)
```

                    "properties": {
                      "name": {
                        "type": "string"
                      }
                    }
                  }
                },
                {
                  "name": "products",
                  "schema": {
                    "type": "object",
                    "required": ["name", "features"],
                    "properties": {
                      "name": {
                        "type": "string"
                      },
                      "features": {
                        "type": "array",
                        "items": {
                          "type": "object",
                          "required": ["name", "productId"],
                          "properties": {
                            "name": "string",
                            "productId": "number"
                          }
                        }
                      }
                    }
                  }
                }
              ]
            }
            ```
#### Read
* Input:
    1. config: A configuration json object that has been validated using the `ConnectorSpecification`.

>     1. catalog: An `AirbyteCatalog`. This catalog should be a subset of the catalog returned by the `discover` command.

Reviewer 2: Can you add something about how this catalog is also what's used to determine what to select?

>     1. state: A json object. This object is only ever written or read by the source, so it is a json blob with whatever information is necessary to keep track of how much of the data source has already been read. Because, Airbyte currently only supports [Full Refresh](full-refresh.md), this state object is purely cosmetic. It will become more important when Airbyte beings to supporting incremental syncs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. state: A json object. This object is only ever written or read by the source, so it is a json blob with whatever information is necessary to keep track of how much of the data source has already been read. Because Airbyte currently only supports [Full Refresh](full-refresh.md), this state object is purely cosmetic. It will become more important when Airbyte supports incremental syncs.
```

* Output:
    1. message stream: A stream of `AirbyteRecordMessage`s and `AirbyteStateMessage`s piped to stdout.
* This command reads data from the underlying data source and converts it into `AirbyteRecordMessage`.
* Outputting `AirbyteStateMessages` is optional. They can be used to track how much of the data source has been synced.
* The integration ideally will only pull the data described in the catalog argument. It is permissible for the integration, however, to ignore the catalog and pull data from any stream it can find. If it follows this second behavior, the extra data will be pruned in the worker. We prefer the former behavior because it reduces the amount of data that is transferred and allows control over not sending sensitive data. There are some sources for which this is simply not possible.

### Destination
* A source is implemented as a docker container. The container must adhere to the following interface.

> ```

Reviewer: Same for the ordering. I would recommend showing the full CLI example here, even if you skip going into detail for the repeats.

Author: ok
